Before we continue with the bill or publishing process and therefore get it to the app stores let's
continue configuring this.
Number one there are some blanks here like the description which is missing which you could add by adding
a description.
Key here with some text and that would be the description that shows up here.
Important that's not a description that shows up in the app stores.
That's really just a description that shows up here and you can learn more about the description all
the arrow keys you can set here in this page.
There are a lot of settings you can set after all.
Now what I'm interested in right now is the icon and splash screen part because that's the icon.
People will see on the home screen.
Of course not yet because right now we're not publishing the apps to the App Store but that will change
and the splash screen.
Well that's what users see when our app loads.
And both are things you typically want to customize.
Now Expo gives you an icon and a splash screen out of the box but both as well just an empty place holder.
Right.
So that's not too amazing.
Instead we want to provide our own icon an own splash screen image here.
Now you're really flexible regarding what you provide here but in general it's a good idea to provide
an icon indeed 1024 by 1024 resolution.
So ask where I can as a input and for the splash screen you can build a splash screen as described in
the official docs where you can learn more about how you could build such a splash screen how you could
structure it and so on.
Now I prepared something for you which you can use to now follow along which you should not use for
real deployment because well these assets are just for this course not for you to use in your app which
you plan to deploy advert it had hatched you find the icons zip file.
Now if you unzip this in there you'll find a place as PMG file which you can of course drag and drop
into the assets folder.
You can also delete the icon BGP and chief all there if you want.
You can also delete the splash pin she filed because in this attached folder you'll also find this splash
icon and chief all what you can of course there for all the drag and drop in here.
Now these are just some icons I created which we can use now.
And back in the app Chase and file we now can point at the custom icons important you should provide.
Pinkie falls as I'm doing it here.
So now 40 I can we can point that assets places PMG and for the splash we can point that assets splash
underscore I can PMG now as a background color dear we can use a dark black color like hex code 1 7
1 7 1 7.
This should be a tax code color like this and resize mode here it can be set to contain or cover cover
will basically stretch the I can to take you full available width and height contain will keep the icon
size center it and have that background color behind the icon.
Now if we do that we can already see the result of this.
If we just NPM start this sort of server as we did many times in this course or exposed start and we
then launched as on an emulator Android or IOW again as I'm doing it here now this launches it there.
And now you see does this de splash screen already taken a new one with the image in there which is
our big but that's on purpose so that we can clearly see it and the background color which is slightly
different so that you all have a chance of seeing that of course you could pick the same color to have
a seamless splash screen here.
So that's working and let's wait for that to finish.
And here's the app running and now you see your icon here as well.
If you go into the tasks which are you see it's not looking that great with the background but that's
something we can improve.
But here is the icon in general that is working we see both the splash screen and the icon and I guess
it would be the same now as you can tell.
The icon doesn't look that great on Android though.
The reason for data is that Android depending on the wording of Android you're running on your device
uses different icons newer more recent versions of Android use these so-called adaptive icons which
already has rounded icons where you have your icon in the middle and then some background color or a
background image even behind them.
Older versions would use Square icons.
Now you can cater for this by providing a more detailed configuration for Android and also for ISIS
if you want instead of having this general icon key here you can setup platform specific settings and
it's all the something you learn in your official box of course.
There you can find information on how you may configure icon in Splash.
That's nice but then also how you may configure IAW in a specific way.
And there you can set up icon specific for eyewear as if you would want to use this.
Of course the same is true for the splash screen so you can basically add an hour's notice to your configuration.
We already have that here even and in there you could also add an icon and then also a splash configuration
which looks exactly or which would look exactly like the route configuration we have here.
But now you could basically override these general root level settings and have a specific icon for
eyes and a specific splash screen for eyes.
So that's something you could do and the same is true for Android and you of course find that as well
in the official box.
You can add an android key here to your app Jason fall and then this holds all.
So to say there you can also set up by icon and a splash configuration just as I explained it for us.
And now these settings would be taken for Android.
I w since it doesn't have specific settings in my example here would still use the general settings
up there.
Now the interesting thing is for Android you can not just set a specific icon splash screen you can
also set an adaptive icon here with the adaptive icon configuration that's not available for IAW because
adaptive icons are exclusive to Android.
Adaptive icon takes javascript object so to say as a configuration value not a string.
And this object can have free keys a foreground image a background color or a background image.
Now you have either a background color or a background image but you always should have a foreground
image.
Now here we can add for ground image.
So this key here and background color which should be a six digit hex code as you can see.
And let's quickly do that here and now we can set the background color to let's say that 1 7 1 7 1 7
code and the foreground image can now be set to our icon though for this I would recommend that you
use a specific icon which you all defined attached here.
The places adaptive PNC file which you can drag and drop into your assets folder and that place is adaptive
PNC file can now be used here as a foreground image so we can point that assets and then place a stash
adaptive top PMG.
Now this icon the places adaptive icon is transparent.
It's still as de I can but it has a transparent background unlike the average icon.
And dad will therefore allow Android to place it in front of this background color or background image
you provided and automatically round the corners for you and so on.
So if we now save this and a display of for rebuilds and to be safe that it really takes us into account
all restart my exposed server here.
If we now launched this on Android and for data also close the expo client here
and then rerun this on Android.
We should see that once it is restarted.
We now have a nicer icon which looks a bit better.
So let's wait for that to launch.
Does it still these flash string as we said up before I also did not set Android specific splash screen
which we of course could but here it didn't.
So we of course got the same splash screen as earlier in this module.
And if you now have a look at the icon you might unfortunately still see the old one the new one will
be taken into account though once we built the Zap as a standalone app and distributed to the app stores
in general the recommendation is that for Android you do set such a adaptive I can because you cover
more android workings which well doesn't hurt of course setting such a general icon is also not a bad
idea.
And of course you can either use one of the same icon for both eyes and Android or you set specific
icons for eyes and for Android as mentioned for Android possibly the adaptive icon if you want to learn
more about the process of creating and managing icons and splash strings attached you find your official
export docs which dive deeply into the different options you have there and what you should consider.